Week 3 quiz


1. What is one difference between an HTTP GET and an HTTP POST request?

Only GET requests use the REFERER header
Only POST requests may include parameter data in the request body
Only GET requests are subject to the same-origin policy
Only POST requests can encode parameters in the URL

2. Which of the following is true about static and dynamic web content?

Static pages may include PHP programs, which execute at the browser
The server often produces dynamic content based on the contents of the database
Static content may be re-generated with each request
Javascript programs embedded in HTML pages are run server-side to produce dynamic content

3. SQL injection exploits a bug in what interaction of a web application?

Client to server
Network to server
Server to client
Server to database

4. SQL injection often allows an attacker to do which of the following?

Overrun a buffer to smash the stack
All of the above
Cause memory to be used after it's freed
Access information he shouldn't

5. If you had to summarize the key (most specific) programming failure with SQL injection, it would be:

Confusing data with code
Bypassing authentication
Trusting without verifying
Circumventing the same origin policy

6. What is escaping an example of?

Blacklisting
Sanitization
Checking
Whitelisting

7. Suppose a web application implements authentication by constructing an SQL query from HTML from data using PHP's prepared statements. What would happen if an attacker entered FRANK' OR 1=1; -- in the web form's user field?

The text will modify the structure of the SQL query and possibly bypass authentication
The text will be confused as the password and authentication will probably fail
The text will corrupt the query structure and the database will view it as a syntax error
The application will try to authenticate a user whose name is FRANK' OR 1=1; --

8. Why is it undesirable to implement session identifiers using (only) hidden form fields?

Such fields cannot include timeout information
Such fields cannot contain binary data
These fields are easily modified by the user
The session ID is forgotten when the browser window is closed

9. Suppose a browser submits a GET request to URL http://www.mybank.com/accountinfo on 20 February 2015. Which of the following cookies, if already stored at the browser, would be sent with the request?

lang=us-english; expires=Sat, 1-Aug-2015; path=/accountinfo/; domain=.fidelity.com
editon=us; expires=Thu, 19-Feb-2015; path=/accountinfo/prefs; domain=.mybank.com
edition=us; expires=Wed, 18-Feb-2015; path=/; domain=.mybank.com
sessid=ABCDEFG; expires=Sat, 21-Feb-2015; path=/; domain=.mybank.com

10. Which of the following are ways that session cookies could be stolen or forged?

Stealing it from the password database
Predicting the cookie's structure and reconstructing it
Reading a cookie from an unencrypted web request

11. Which of the following are ways to reduce the impact of a stolen cookies?

Prevent cookies from entering the DNS cache
Giving each cookie a timeout
Changing a user's cookie from session to session

12. How can the REFERER field be used to defend against CSRF attacks?

It can be used to ensure that sensitive requests are (only) initiated by interaction with a site's own pages
It ensures that requests only come from authenticated users
It can't be used reliably because it only works for dynamic content
It can be used to check that a Javascript program is from the proper origin

13. <script></script>tags in HTML pages most often identify programs written in what language?

PHP
C
Java
Javascript

14. The browser implements security for Javascript programs for what reason?

Such programs may access browser-controlled resources, which include potentially sensitive data in HTML documents and cookies
It doesn't -- these programs are only used to render dynamic content but are otherwise not security-relevant
Such programs could deny service by running forever
It doesn't -- Javascript programs run at the server so the browser can ignore them

15. XSS subverts what policy?

Whitelisting
Same Origin
Availability
Secure defaults

16. What is the difference between stored (or persistent) XSS and reflected XSS?

Stored XSS works by injecting code in a site's served content, while reflected XSS injects code in a URL
Stored XSS works on database queries while reflected XSS works on cookies, which are received from and reflected back to the server
Stored XSS embeds Javascript in an a URL, while reflected XSS embeds it in a mirrored site
Stored XSS is amenable to blacklisting but reflected XSS is not